README.md, before:

# The project is part of Data Science in Production: MLOps and Software Engineering [BSDSPMS1KU] at IT University of Copenhagen

<a href="https://github.com/lasselundstenjensen/itu-sdse-project">
    The original project description
</a>

# Team: Git Gut

# Team members:

Alexandru Jizdan, <br>
Kateryna Tkachuk, <br>
Mykyta Taranov, <br>
Vivien Ivett Pribula

## Project structure

```
├── .github/
│ └── workflows/
│ ├── ci.yml <- CI pipeline: build Docker image, lint with ruff, run tests
│ └── train-model.yml <- Training pipeline: runs Dagger workflow, uploads model artifacts
│
├── bin/
│ └── dagger <- Dagger CLI binary
│
├── ci/
│ └── main.go <- Dagger pipeline
│
├── data/
│ └── raw/
│ │ └── raw_data.csv.dvc <- DVC metadata for data versioning
│
├── mlops_project/ <- Core ML pipeline modules
│ ├── **init**.py
│ ├── preprocessing.py <- Data loading, cleaning, feature engineering, scaling
│ ├── training.py <- Model training loop (LogReg, RF, XGBoost) with MLflow tracking
│ ├── model_select.py <- Selects best model from experiments, registers in MLflow
│ └── deploy.py <- Transitions model to Staging in MLflow registry
│
├── model/ <- Trained model artifacts (exported by pipeline)
│ ├── model.pkl <- Serialized best model
│ ├── scaler.pkl <- Fitted MinMaxScaler
│ └── columns_list.json <- Feature names for inference
│
├── notebooks/
│ └──0.01_Data_exploration.ipynb <- Exploratory data analysis
│ 
│
├── tests/ <- Test suite (pytest)
│ ├── unit/ <- Unit tests
│ │ ├── test_deploy.py <- Deployment function tests
│ │ ├── test_deployimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ ├── test_modelselect.py <- Model selection function tests
│ │ ├── test_modelselectimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ ├── test_preprocessing_unit.py <- Preprocessing function tests
│ │ ├── test_preprocessingimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ ├── test_training.py <- Training utility function tests
│ │ ├── test_trainingimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ └── test_trainingruns.py <- Module execution smoke test
│ └── integration/ <- Integration tests
│   ├── test_pipeline.py <- End-to-end pipeline test
│   ├── test_pipelinefast.py <- Fast pipeline test with mocks
│   └── test_preprocessingmock.py <- Preprocessing script execution test
│
├── Dockerfile <- Production container image
├── go.mod <- Go module dependencies for Dagger
├── go.sum <- Dependency checksums
├── pyproject.toml <- Project metadata, dependencies, tool configs (ruff, pytest)
├── uv.lock <- Locked dependency versions
├── start_container.sh <- Helper script to launch interactive Docker container
└── README.md <- Project structure and instruction how to run the code
```

# How to run the code and generate the model artifact

## GitHub Actions Workflow

The training workflow runs automatically after the CI pipeline completes successfully, or can be triggered manually.

### Automatic Trigger
The training workflow (`train-model.yml`) is automatically triggered when the CI workflow completes successfully.

### Manual Trigger (for contributors)
To manually trigger the training workflow:
1. Go to **Actions** tab in GitHub
2. Select **"Train model with Dagger"** workflow
3. Click **"Run workflow"**
4. Select the branch (default: `main`) and click **"Run workflow"**

### Accessing Model Artifacts
The trained model is uploaded as a GitHub Actions artifact named `model`.
After the workflow completes:
1. Navigate to the completed workflow run
2. Scroll down to the **"Artifacts"** section
3. Download the `model` artifact which contains:
   - `model.pkl` - Serialized best model
   - `scaler.pkl` - Fitted MinMaxScaler
   - `columns_list.json` - Feature names for inference

### Local workflow with `dagger`

For local workflow running the following dependencies has to be the following ones:
```
dagger >= v0.19.6
go version >= go1.25.0
Python >= 3.10.0
Docker >= 24.0
```

To run the training workflow, run:
```
dagger run go run ./ci/main.go
```
This will run the whole pipline, and results in model artifacts in the `./model` folder. 

# References:

This repository is a fork from [Lasse Lund Sten Jensen's original project repo](https://github.com/lasselundstenjensen/itu-sdse-project).

---

<a target="_blank" href="https://cookiecutter-data-science.drivendata.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CCDS-Project%20template-328F97?logo=cookiecutter" />
</a>

Note: We wanted to implement DVC with GoogleDrive connection, but due to an authentication issue we were not able to use this approach as it only worked for the repo owner. We decided to fall back to DVC handling from GitHub, as there were no better alternative for the scope of the project.

```

```

Commit message:

docs: ReadMe clarification for notebooks directory

README.md, after:

# The project is part of Data Science in Production: MLOps and Software Engineering [BSDSPMS1KU] at IT University of Copenhagen

<a href="https://github.com/lasselundstenjensen/itu-sdse-project">
    The original project description
</a>

# Team: Git Gut

# Team members:

Alexandru Jizdan, <br>
Kateryna Tkachuk, <br>
Mykyta Taranov, <br>
Vivien Ivett Pribula

## Project structure

```
├── .github/
│ └── workflows/
│ ├── ci.yml <- CI pipeline: build Docker image, lint with ruff, run tests
│ └── train-model.yml <- Training pipeline: runs Dagger workflow, uploads model artifacts
│
├── bin/
│ └── dagger <- Dagger CLI binary
│
├── ci/
│ └── main.go <- Dagger pipeline
│
├── data/
│ └── raw/
│ │ └── raw_data.csv.dvc <- DVC metadata for data versioning
│
├── mlops_project/ <- Core ML pipeline modules
│ ├── **init**.py
│ ├── preprocessing.py <- Data loading, cleaning, feature engineering, scaling
│ ├── training.py <- Model training loop (LogReg, RF, XGBoost) with MLflow tracking
│ ├── model_select.py <- Selects best model from experiments, registers in MLflow
│ └── deploy.py <- Transitions model to Staging in MLflow registry
│
├── model/ <- Trained model artifacts (exported by pipeline)
│ ├── model.pkl <- Serialized best model
│ ├── scaler.pkl <- Fitted MinMaxScaler
│ └── columns_list.json <- Feature names for inference
│
├── notebooks/
│ └──0.01_Data_exploration.ipynb <- The notebooks/ directory contains exploratory analysis only and is not used in production pipelines.
│ 
│
├── tests/ <- Test suite (pytest)
│ ├── unit/ <- Unit tests
│ │ ├── test_deploy.py <- Deployment function tests
│ │ ├── test_deployimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ ├── test_modelselect.py <- Model selection function tests
│ │ ├── test_modelselectimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ ├── test_preprocessing_unit.py <- Preprocessing function tests
│ │ ├── test_preprocessingimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ ├── test_training.py <- Training utility function tests
│ │ ├── test_trainingimport.py <- Import smoke test
│ │ └── test_trainingruns.py <- Module execution smoke test
│ └── integration/ <- Integration tests
│   ├── test_pipeline.py <- End-to-end pipeline test
│   ├── test_pipelinefast.py <- Fast pipeline test with mocks
│   └── test_preprocessingmock.py <- Preprocessing script execution test
│
├── Dockerfile <- Production container image
├── go.mod <- Go module dependencies for Dagger
├── go.sum <- Dependency checksums
├── pyproject.toml <- Project metadata, dependencies, tool configs (ruff, pytest)
├── uv.lock <- Locked dependency versions
├── start_container.sh <- Helper script to launch interactive Docker container
└── README.md <- Project structure and instruction how to run the code
```

# How to run the code and generate the model artifact

## GitHub Actions Workflow

The training workflow runs automatically after the CI pipeline completes successfully, or can be triggered manually.

### Automatic Trigger
The training workflow (`train-model.yml`) is automatically triggered when the CI workflow completes successfully.

### Manual Trigger (for contributors)
To manually trigger the training workflow:
1. Go to **Actions** tab in GitHub
2. Select **"Train model with Dagger"** workflow
3. Click **"Run workflow"**
4. Select the branch (default: `main`) and click **"Run workflow"**

### Accessing Model Artifacts
The trained model is uploaded as a GitHub Actions artifact named `model`.
After the workflow completes:
1. Navigate to the completed workflow run
2. Scroll down to the **"Artifacts"** section
3. Download the `model` artifact which contains:
   - `model.pkl` - Serialized best model
   - `scaler.pkl` - Fitted MinMaxScaler
   - `columns_list.json` - Feature names for inference

### Local workflow with `dagger`

For local workflow running the following dependencies has to be the following ones:
```
dagger >= v0.19.6
go version >= go1.25.0
Python >= 3.10.0
Docker >= 24.0
```

To run the training workflow, run:
```
dagger run go run ./ci/main.go
```
This will run the whole pipline, and results in model artifacts in the `./model` folder. 

# References:

This repository is a fork from [Lasse Lund Sten Jensen's original project repo](https://github.com/lasselundstenjensen/itu-sdse-project).

---

<a target="_blank" href="https://cookiecutter-data-science.drivendata.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CCDS-Project%20template-328F97?logo=cookiecutter" />
</a>

Note: We wanted to implement DVC with GoogleDrive connection, but due to an authentication issue we were not able to use this approach as it only worked for the repo owner. We decided to fall back to DVC handling from GitHub, as there were no better alternative for the scope of the project.

```

```
